<h1 align="center">
  <a>Assignment 6 – Handwritten Digit Recognition</a>
</h1>
<h3 align="center">
  <a>Machine Learning @ Uni-Konstanz 2019 due to 26.07.19</a>
</h3>

## Idea 📓

- Train a neaural network 

- Classify the MNIST handwritten digits dataset

***

**The goal of this exercise is creating a handwriting recognition for a data set that contains handwritten digits between 0 and 9** using a multiclass classifier generated by an artificial neural network with one hidden layer.

***

## Data 📦

- `digits_data.csv`

- `digits_labels.csv`

The handwritten digits are characterized by a 20 x 20 pixel gray level matrix that is stored in the lines of the file `digits_data.csv`. The label corresponding to each digit is stored in `digits_labels.csv`; the digit "0" is mapped to label "10" in this list.

## Tasks 📝

#### Preliminaries

- You will need to complete the following functions:
	
	- `nnminuslogLikelihood.m`
	
    - `sigmoid.m`

Each function file contains the necessary instructions and starter code.

#### Classification

The file `main.m` will be divided as follows:
	
1. **Part I: Classification using provided weigths**.

	- Load the dataset.
	
	- *Task 1* : Display 100 randomly chosen figures in the data set
	
	- *Task 2* : Load up the weights `Theta1` and `Theta2` from `paramsNN.mat`, use the NN associated to these weights to classify the digits in 'digits_data.csv'
	
	- *Task 3* : Create a misclassification matrix
	
	- *Task 4* : Visualize the "7"s that get classified as "1"s

2. **Part II: Implement the backpropagation algorithm**:

	- *Task 1* : Implement the `nnminuslogLikelihood` function
	
	- *Task 2* : Check the correctness of your implementation
	
	- *Task 3* : Use the function `nnminuslogLikelihood` to train the neural network
	
	- *Task 4* : Use the NN obtained to classify the digits in `digits_data.csv`
	
	- *Task 5* : Create a misclassification matrix
	
	- *Task 6* : Visualize the "3"s that get classified as "8"s

## Notes ⚠️

**Write your assignment code following the instructions given in  `main.m`**.

Please *avoid creating unnecessary scripts/function files*, as this makes the code harder to grasp in its entirety.

**Good programming rules apply**:
- Use meaningful variable names. 
- Use indentation.
- Keep your code tidy. 
- Add a minimum of comments (if you deem then necessary). 

<br>

***Good work!***

<br>